close to one and a half million
Palestinians are Sheltering in Rafa
where an Israeli ground offensive is
threatened here's what a few of them are
expecting the numbers of dead and
wounded people here will be huge if
Israel storms Rafa personally I will
never leave Rafa I will stay in Rafa I'm
ready this time to die in Rafa we urge
all the Arab countries particularly
Egypt Qatar the United Arab Emirates in
Saudi Arabia to take action and adopted
a decision to help the Palestinian
people and to save the Palestinians from
the genocide being committed by
Netanyahu we live together with the
shelling destruction relocation fear and
hunger despite everything we will stay
strong and resilient there is news that
Israel is pressuring Hamas to accept
certain demands otherwise Israel will
storm Rafa this will result in a massive
catastrophe we have spent more than 100
days here there are more than a million
displaced people of different genders
ages sicknesses and diseases we will
remain an eternal memory of human
history for everyone who cares to
remember we kept moving from one place
to another about seven times we've lost
everything there is nothing left they
can threaten us with from now on we have
no place to go but the grave I want the
Arab countries to be United and if I
know America is comprehensively
supporting Israel but I want Americans
to help us get back our land and our
houses the Palestinian prime minister
Muhammad has warned that any Israeli
offensive there would Mark a new phase
in the Gaza
genocide the killing machine of Israel
is still killing our sons in Gaza Strip
This Stone a new escalation
has been announced by the Israeli Prime
Minister toward storming RAF the last
resulting Square in Rafa 100 martys have
gone in most of them are women and
children in RAF there are 1.4 million
people living in difficult circumstances
freezing weather epidemics hunger and
Israel continues the genocide started in
Gaza
and words of concern from the European
Union's top Diplomat as well Joseph
barell says Israel should be pressed not
to go ahead with its offensive on
Rafa even the US who is the strongest
supporter of Israel consider it by the
President Biden
himself that this action is
disproportionated that they toll of
people being killed civilians being
killed is unable and warning Israel not
to continue this way but my question is
apart from
words what else do you think it has to
be
done and Britain's foreign secretary is
also calling for Israel to in his words
stop and think before raiding Rafa David
Cameron says Gaza needs a sustainable
ceasefire we are very concerned about
what is happening in Rafa because let's
be clear the people there many of them
have moved for or far six times before
getting there and uh it really we think
is impossible to to see how you can can
fight a war amongst these people there's
nowhere for them to go uh they can't go
south into Egypt they can't go north in
back to their homes because many have
been destroyed so we are very concerned
about the situation and we want Israel
to stop and think very seriously before
it takes any further action but above
all what we want is an immediate pause
in the fighting and we want that pause
to lead to a ceas fire a sustainable
ceasefire without a return um to further
fighting well let's take a much closer
look at all of these responses with
jannis vraz who's an economist and
Greece's former Finance Minister he
joins us from Athens a warm welcome to
you so when it comes to Israel's war on
Gaza and the subsequent humanitarian
catastrophe you once said that we
Europeans have created this what did you
mean by
that Europeans have been responsible for
centuries of
anti-Semitism of U one program after the
next until we reach the
Holocaust and uh since then um this
Collective guilt has weaponized a policy
of uh uh White Settlement and um um
supremacism in Palestine time
essentially what we have been doing is
um using the collective guilt over the
treatment of Jews and over the Holocaust
in order to justify um the Zionist
genocide of Palestinians because let's
face it what was this Zionist project
all about it was about exporting Jews
from Europe to a land that didn't belong
to the Europeans that the Europeans
allocated to the Jews to go to that is a
collective project a European project it
began with a balford declaration but
after
1945 it gave rise to the Naka uh Zionism
had
a a very clear rationale a land without
a people for a people without a land in
a sense it was a racist ideology just
like the British who went to Australia
proclaiming Australia to be tanus an
empty land along with other people right
uh Zionism together with European forces
have proclaimed Palestine to be a place
without humans the dehumanization of if
European if Europe as you say is
collectively responsible for creating
the problem in the first place obviously
then the solution must be in the hands
of Western Powers also what is the
collective responsibility now on
them well exactly as you put it we
created we Europeans created the problem
and at the moment we are playing a
vicious role in its perpetuation you
heard I just heard on your program Mr
borell hypocritically lamenting the fact
that not enough pressure is being
applied on Israel to stop the genocide
in Rafa Mr borell you are representing
the European Union which collectively is
arming Israel Germany France Italy as we
speak are sending the very armaments
that are being used in Rafa to kill
people we heard Mr Cameron the British
foreign secretary lamenting again what
is happening in Rafa he has been
instrumental in uh steadying the hand of
the IDF in its pursuit of genocide for
weeks now by doing whatever he can in
order to prevent the CIS fire from
taking place so Europeans have created
the problem Europeans are perpetuating
the problem and Europeans are failing to
do that which is necessary in order
to to do what we claim we are interested
in doing because the official the
official version the official Theory the
official policy is a two-state solution
and yet Europeans are completely
complicit in the support of an Israeli
government under Mr Netanyahu whose
life's work has been the destruction of
any Prospect of a Palestinian state so
so you Europe is as you say complicit in
what we are seeing there I wonder to
what extent the legal political the
global institutions the European Union
as you mentioned there these
institutions that have underpinned the
world order since the second world war
what is happening to their Authority we
know that the un's authority is being
repeatedly ignored and even recent
rulings that the is CJ calling on Israel
to end acts of plausible genocide are
being played down by the US UK and
others I have to be honest with you I
believe that Europe's moral
Authority uh and geopolitical Authority
at a global level uh is a spent Force we
have jettison did some time ago if you
think back to the time when you know Jac
Shirak the right-wing president of
France visited the occupied territories
a long long time ago um even though he
was a friend of Israel even though he
was a Zionist he had the guts at during
that visit to confront the uh the IDF
the occupying forces and in in the
occupied territories to proclaim the
importance of ending the occupation what
we call today apar heide today there's
not French president there is no V brand
a chancellor of Germany that had moral
Authority back in the late 60s early
970s steadily Europe's
moral soft power has been depleted with
every occasion when Europeans are
turning a blind eye to the very concept
of Universal human rights that sprang
out of the European Enlightenment with
every uh nod to Washington that
essentially whatever Washington decides
regarding for instance Ukraine you go
along with it right
theal St mrus mrus I'm afraid we're
we're up up against the clock in
speaking to you but let me press you on
the point of moral Authority because you
personally have courted controversy by
not rushing to condemn hamas's assault
on Israel on October the 7th why did you
make that
decision let me start by saying I
condemn every atrocity against civilians
or every
atrocity overall
however what I refused to do was to
condemn Hamas in the same way that I
would never condemn the symptom of a
phenomenon but I will go straight to
the main cause of it in the same way
that I would never for instance back in
the 1970s condemn the the IRA for the
colonialism exhibited by the British
governments of many
many decades and remember that in the
end there would have been no peace and
no justice in Northern Ireland if the
IRA was not involved in the peace
process in exactly the same way to use
the events of the 7th of October to
condemn Hamas would be to jeopardize any
Prospect for peace and Universal human
rights from the river to the sea in
Palestine jannis faracis many thanks for
joining
us thank you